PostgreSQL manual deployment and init_db.go (#44)
kubearchive/kubearchive: database/README.md

> # Database instructions

Reviewer: Title capitalization:

```suggestion
# Database Instructions
```

## Requirements

* Kubernetes cluster
  

>   Follow the instructions to deploy a Kubernetes cluster from [Local Deployment]([kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)).

Reviewer: This link is not displaying at all when I view the file in GitHub. Was the link intended to be for the "Local Deployment" text?

Author: updated!

* go
  
  [Download and install go](https://go.dev/doc/install)
* psql
  ```bash
  sudo dnf install postgresql
  psql --version
  psql (PostgreSQL) 15.6
  ```
* DBeaver Community
  

>   A SQL client is recommended to interact easily with the Database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A SQL client is recommended to interact easily with the database: 
```

Database should not be capitalized here, and I think you probably want to end this with a colon, since you have the DBeaver Community title and link immediately after it.

Author: updated this and the others :-)

  [DBeaver Community](https://dbeaver.io/).

> ## Manual deployment

Reviewer: Title capitalization:

```suggestion
## Manual Deployment
```

> The PostgreSQL manual deployment consists in 2 parts: First, the deployment of the Database infrastructure and then, using a script, create a table in the Database and populate it.

Reviewer: It should be "consists **of two** parts". You change tense in the middle of the instructions, I have made the first part active in the suggestion below. Also, database should not be capitalized here.

```suggestion
The PostgreSQL manual deployment consists of two parts: First, deploy the database infrastructure and then, using a script, create a table in the database and populate it.
```

> ### Deploy the Database infrastructure

Reviewer: Title capitalization.

```suggestion
### Deploy the Database Infrastructure
```

> * Create a ConfigMap with the Database details.

Reviewer: Database should not be capitalized here.

```suggestion
* Create a ConfigMap with the database details.
```

I won't mark the rest of them in the document, but they should be updated as well.

In the file `postgres-cm.yaml` add the configuration parameters for the Database in the `data` section.
```yaml
# ...
data:
  POSTGRES_DB: <db_name> # postgresdb
  POSTGRES_USER: <db_user> # admin or ps_user

>   POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <db_pass> # a secure password

Reviewer: We should not have a password in a config file - we need to come up with an alternative for this.

Author: yes, I agreed. This was the fastest way to implement this. I'll open a ticket to replace this by a secret for the manual deployment.
Also, the helm deployment will not use a CM to store the password.

```
Apply the ConfigMap configuration to the cluster.
```bash
kubectl apply -f postgres-cm.yaml -n [namespace]
configmap/postgres-secret created
```
* Create a PersistentVolume. 

> The file `psql-pv.yaml` has the PersistentVolume definition, the `spec.capacity.storage` is set to `10Gi` by default.

Reviewer: Rather than "by default", I suggest saying "in the file" to make it clear where the value is set and can be changed if necessary.

```suggestion
The file `psql-pv.yaml` has the PersistentVolume definition, the `spec.capacity.storage` is set to `10Gi` in the file.
```

Apply the PersistentVolume definition to the cluster.
```bash
kubectl apply -f psql-pv.yaml -n [namespace]
persistentvolume/postgres-volume created
```
* Create a PersistentVolumeClaim.

> The file `psql-claim.yaml` has the PersistentVolumeClaim definition. The `spec.resources.request.storage` is set to `10Gi` by default.

Reviewer: Rather than "by default", I suggest saying "in the file" to make it clear where the value is set and can be changed if necessary.

```suggestion
The file `psql-claim.yaml` has the PersistentVolumeClaim definition. The `spec.resources.request.storage` is set to `10Gi` in the file.
```

> Apply the PersistentVolumeClaim definiton to the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apply the PersistentVolumeClaim definition to the cluster.
```

Author: oops, I have 2 or 3 ...

```bash
kubectl apply -f psql-claim.yaml -n [namespaces]
persistentvolumeclaim/postgres-volume-claim created
```
Check the pvc status.
```bash
kubectl get pvc -n [namespace]
NAME                    STATUS   VOLUME            CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   VOLUMEATTRIBUTESCLASS   AGE
postgres-volume-claim   Bound    postgres-volume   10Gi       RWX            manual         <unset>                 43s
```
If everything is correct, the `STATUS` should be `Bound`.
* Create a PostgreSQL Deployment
  

> The file `ps-deployment.yaml` has the Deployment definition. The `spec.replicas` is set to `1` by default. The image used is `postgres:16` but can be changed to test other versions.

Reviewer: Rather than "by default", I suggest saying "in the file" to make it clear where the value is set and can be changed if necessary.

```suggestion
The file `ps-deployment.yaml` has the Deployment definition. The `spec.replicas` is set to `1` in the file. The image used is `postgres:16` but can be changed to test other versions.
```

Apply the Deployment definition to the cluster.
```bash
kubectl apply -f ps-deployment.yaml -n [namespace]

> deployment.apps/postgres created

Reviewer: Is "created" (with a "d" on the end) the right command?

Author: That's the reply of kubernetes when you create the deployment.
`manferna@manferna-thinkpadp1gen3:~/repos/kubearchive/database$ kubectl apply -f ps-deployment.yaml -n database
deployment.apps/postgres created
`
I don't know how to make that more clear. Should I remove it?

Author: excellent! I updated all the commands. Thanks!

```
* Create a Service
  
The file `ps-service.yaml` has the Service definition.
Apply the Service definition to the cluster:
```bash
kubectl apply -f ps-service.yaml -n [namespace]

> service/postgres created

Reviewer: Is "created" (with a "d" on the end) the right command?

service/kubernetes   ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP          8m53s
service/postgres     NodePort    10.96.248.178   <none>        5432:31047/TCP   19s

NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/postgres   1/1     1            1           54s

NAME                                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/postgres-65db968757   1         1         1       54s
```

* Test the connection to the Database.
  
Identify the PostgreSQL pod.
```bash
kubectl get pods -n [namespace]
NAME                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
postgres-65db968757-ncnvk   1/1     Running   0          2m38s
```

```bash
kubectl exec -it [postgres_pod] -- psql -h localhost -U [db_user] --password -p 5432 [db_name]
```
Replace the `postgres_pod`, `db_user` and `db_name` with the values from `postgres-cm.yaml`. The `--password` prompts for the password interactively.
```bash
kubectl exec -it postgres-65db968757-ncnvk -- psql -h localhost -U ps_user --password -p 5432 postgresdb
Password: 
psql (16.3 (Debian 16.3-1.pgdg120+1))
Type "help" for help.

postgresdb=# 
```

> ### Create a table and populate the Database

Reviewer: Title capitalization.

```suggestion
### Create a Table and Populate the Database
```

The script `init_db.go` will create a table in the Database and will insert the test objects from `test_objects.sql`
* Add the Database access configuration. The values are the same from the `postgres-cm.yaml`.
```go
const (
	host     = "localhost"
	port     = 5432
	user     = // the db_user from postgres-cm.yaml, ie: "admin", "ps_user".
	password = // the db_password from postgres-cm.yaml
	dbname   = // the db_name from postgres-cm.yaml, ie: "postgres", "test_db".
)
```
* Run the script
```bash
go run init_db.go
table test_objects created in the DB.
testdata from test_objects.sql inserted in the DB.
```

> ## SQL queries (examples)

Reviewer: Title capitalization.

```suggestion
## SQL Queries (Examples)
```

These queries can be executed from the Database.
Connect to the Database.
```bash
kubectl exec -it [postgres_pod] -- psql -h localhost -U [db_user] --password -p 5432 [db_name]
```
```sql
SELECT * FROM test_objects;
```
```sql
SELECT * FROM test_objects WHERE kind='Job';
```
```sql
SELECT * FROM test_objects WHERE data::jsonb->>'kind'='Job';
```
## Configure DBeaver
* Create a port-forward.
```bash
kubectl port-forward -n [namespace] svc/postgres 5432:5432
```
* DBeaver settings
  Go to `Database` > `New Database Connection`.
  Select `PostgreSQL`.

>   Fill the connection parameters with the values from `postgres-cm.yaml`. And click on the `Finish` button.

Reviewer: Since it is a separate sentence, you don't need "And" here.

```suggestion
  Fill the connection parameters with the values from `postgres-cm.yaml`. Click on the `Finish` button.
```

# Database Instructions

## Requirements

* Kubernetes cluster
  

>   Follow the instructions to deploy a Kubernetes cluster from [Local Deployment]([kubernetes](https://github.com/kubearchive/kubearchive/blob/main/README.md#local-deployment)).

Reviewer: This still needs to be fixed:

```suggestion
  Follow these instructions to deploy a Kubernetes cluster as a
  [Local Deployment](https://github.com/kubearchive/kubearchive/blob/main/README.md#local-deployment).
```

Author: Changed!

* go
  
  [Download and install go](https://go.dev/doc/install)
* psql
  ```bash
  $ sudo dnf install postgresql

>   psql --version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ psql --version
```
